# Scanning
A scanner takes in a linear stream of characters and chunks them together
into a series of tokens -- somehing more akin to words.
Whitespace is often insignificant adn comments, by definition, are ignored by the language

# Parsing
A parser takes the flat sequence of tokens and builds a tree a structure that
mirrors the nested neature of the grammer.

To compose larger expressions and statements out of smaller parts

# Static analysis
The first bit of analysis that the most languages do is called binding or resolution. For each indentifier we find out where the name is defined and wire the two together. This is where scope comes into play -- the region of source code
where a certain name can be used to refer to a certain declaration.

All this semantic insight that is visible to us from analysis needs to be stored
somewhere.
 -- It might get stored right back as attributes on syntax tree itself
 -- Symbol table
 -- Entirelt new ds that more directly express the semantic of the code

# Intermediate Represantations


# Optimization
Once we understand what the user's program means, we are free to swap it out
with a different program that has the same semantics but implements them
more efficiently -- we can optimize it


# Code generation
The last step is converting it to a form the machine ca actually run.
We have decision to make. Do we generate instructions for a real CPU or a virtual one? I we generate real machine code, we get an executable that the OS can load directly on the chip. Speaking the chip language also means your compiler is tied to a specific architecture(x86, ARM).
To get arround that, we make compilers produce virtual machine code. Instead of
instuctions for some real chip, they produced code for idealized machine. We generally call it bytecode(p-code) because each instruction is often a single byte long.

# Virtual Machine

# Runtime

If we compiled it to bytecode, we need to startup the VM and load the program into that.
If we compiled it to machine code, we tell the OS to load executable.
We usually need some services that our language provides while the program is running --
garbage collector etc. In a fully compiled language, the code implementing the runtime gets
inserted directly into the resulting executable. In,say, Go, each compiled application
has its own copy of Go's runtime directly embedded in it. If the language is run inside an interpreter
or VM, runtime lives there. JS, Python, Ruby, Java

# A Tree-walk Interpreter
 Scanning -> Parsing -> Evaluating Code

# Scanning(lexing, lexical analysis)





