# Statements and State
Having a way to bind a name to some data or function. State and statements go hand in hand. Since statements, by definition,
don't evaluate to a value. <br/>
They do `side effects` to be useful. It could mean producing user-visible output or modifying some state in the interpreter that can be detecting later

## Statements

1. **Expression statement** : Let's you evalutate an expression where a statement is expected -- function calls

2. **Print statement** : Evaluates an expression and displays the result to the user

> A script is simply a list of statements
Grammar rules:

```
  program -> statement* EOF ;
  statement -> exprStmt | printStmt ;
  exprStmt -> expression ";" ;
  printStmt -> "print" expression ";" ;
```

Turn this grammar into something we can store in memory -- syntax trees.

## Satement Syntax trees


## Global Variables
A **veriable declaration** statement brings a new variable in to the world
> `var beverage = "espresso";`

That creates a new binding that associates a name with a value

A **variable expression** accesses that binding, when the identifier is used <br/>
as an expression, it looks up that the value bound to that name and returns it

program -> declaration* EOF ;
declaration -> varDecl | statement ;
statement -> exprStmt | printStmt ;
varDecl -> "var" IDENTIFIER ("=" expression)? ";" ;

## Environments
??
## Assignment


## Scope

### Lexical scope -- Static Scope
It is a specific style of scope where the text of the program itself
shows where a scope begins and ends, in most languages variables are lexically scoped.
You can figure out which variable declaration it refers to just by looking at source code.
This is incontrast with **dynamic scope** where you don't know what a name refers until you
execute the code,  methods and fields on objects are dynamically scoped




